---
title: PUSO
date: 2014-08-31 00:00:00
subtitle: My time as the Editor for the Philippine United Student Organization at Stony Brook University.
featured_image: '/images/projects/puso/puso_logo.png'
---

From April 2013 academic year to August 2014, I served as the Editor for the Philippine United Student Organization, otherwise known as PUSO. I was expected to create all the media required to run what was, at the time, one of the largest student organizations on campus. As the name implies, it is a Filipino cultural group, but the membership consisted of people from all different backgerounds and ethnicities. Rather than an exclusive group, we were focused as an inclusive one. 

{% include post-components/video.html
	url = "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ut2z6BlRAbo"
	full_width = true
%}

My job was to promote, advertise, and commemorate. I spent a lot of time thinking of flyer designs and images to use on social media promoting our events. The club was run very casually up until when I joined in so I took it upon myself to give the club a consistent visual identity that represented what the club stood for, be a strong identifier on campus, and at least last for a few years.

{% include post-components/gallery.html
	columns = 2
	full_width = false
	images = "/images/projects/puso/gallery/1.png,/images/projects/puso/gallery/2.jpg,/images/projects/puso/gallery/3.jpg,/images/projects/puso/gallery/4.png
	"
%}

Of course, I didn't only focus on graphic design and video editing; I also had to work with a diverse team to coordinate complex events, stay connected to the club's general body, and help out wherever I was needed. I even spent a summer teaching the editors who would fill my role after I left. The year I spent with PUSO taught me about working in a diverse organization and solving problems with no discrete actions. The general direction of PUSO's visual identity still follows the precedent I set and the logo is still in use

{% include post-components/video.html
	url = "https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/kgIVpaoHXlM?controls=0"
	full_width = true
%}