---
title: Time Lady
feed: hide
description: Personal postmortem for Chrono Gear\: Warden of Time
---

Chrono Gear has been since September 12th, so I'm taking some time to personally reflect on the development process: what I think went well and what did not, typical game postmortem fare. While the game isn't fully "dead" yet in the sense that would justify a "postmortem", there have been 144 commits; if we remove merges, over 80% of them are from me and are for optimzation, QoL, bug fixes, and anything else from the cutting room floor I want to add in. It's generally safe to say that aside from my long term support and maintenance, development is dead and has moved on to other things. Hence, reflection time.

While this is from my perspective, I'm trying to be detached and relatively objective in my observations.

---
# What we did

This game was first for many of us in a lot of ways: first commercial game, first foray into Godot, first time working on a team, first time using version control, etc. We made a game that takes after Mega Man, notably 11 and the Zero series. We created 40+ levels, with 90+ enemies and 80+ music tracks. We have FMVs, we have some voice over, we have speed. What started as a nugget of an idea for a free fangame ballooned into a officially published by hololive commercial game.

---
# What went well

### Assets were never an issue
In terms of sprites, tilesets, music, artwork: there were never any significant issues with them. Generally on time and made available for dev use pretty quick.

### Fresh talent pool
The talent pool on hand was pretty good all things considered. Plenty of people without name recognition in hololive fan media got to work on this. Not to necessarily throw any shade at like Kay Yu or Kanauru but when the field is saturated by a few names, things start to get samey so fresh perspectives is always good.

### Laid-back development
Development structure was pretty loose: people could suggest ideas, things could get implemented or dropped without too much consequence. Many of my proposals are examples of that: speedrun tech, analog movement, sprint, records menu, easter eggs. Personally, I got to jump in between specializations with some sprite work and some music work on top of the code work. There also wasn't an over-arching deadline for most of the project lifespan, until we approched release, but that's per usual.

### Cohesive vision
Most every aspect of the game has Spacey Batotelli's hand in it in some way, so there's a generally strong cohesion throughout the project. It helps that this isn't Spacey's first nor second game so the 2D pixel art sidescroller incorporates so many things she's had experience with already and that can be felt by how many people recognize the shared DNA Chrono Gear has with the Freedom Planet series.

### holoindie
holoindie got involved as the publisher which helped particularly in marketing, obtaining music rights, and coordinating with talent for voice over. 

---
# What did not go well

## Overscoped and underplanned
Most of the issues stem from the laid-back development cycle and how "freeform" it was. Depending on your view it could be just a consequence of development, or it could be a haphazard approach.

### Lack of a solid direction
This is an odd point because Spacey leads the project so her direction is the project's direction. At the same time, she doesn't have the most solid of plans or frameworks when developing and kinda moves from one thing to the next based on what catches her attention next. For the rest of the team, unless they had very specific roles, it meant direction was kind of all over the place. Things get left on the cutting room floor, or effort gets wasted on something that ultimately doesn't fit in the overall package. I think the hard tonal whiplash in the plot is a consequence of this, as is how much of the plot progression is in the third act. It's intentional, not because it was planned that way, but in order to make the whole plot work. It's actually a miracle that it comes together relatively clean, because I couldn't entirely envision it until the end.

### Inconsistency in assets
This one is relatively minor but it piggybacks off the last point. The main criteria for assets seemed to be passing the vibe check. If it was good enough, it was in. Which for a smaller group can be okay, you just need assets made. But with so many different people, and no firm direction to make sure everyone is fully aligned, you're going to see differences in styles emerge. You can see it in portraits, some sprite animation, in between different cuts in the FMVs, etc. The least egregious areas were the music since anything that stood out in terms of total polish got another pass, and the environments since that was largely one person.

### Simultaneously too many and not enough cooks
In addition to lacking firm direction, the talent pool had varying levels of commitment time-wise, which meant that attention was actually somewhat scarce and some things just don't get worked on. People get busy, issues got lost in the dev chat, no issue triage, lack of thorough testing, etc. It makes it hard to organize when so many people have input on something. Consequently, having so many people involved also makes it hard to be critical. The implicit social pressure to align and agree is a lot stronger the more people there are, so it felt hard to deliver constructive criticism while being particular about word choice to avoid stepping on anyone's toes.

### Too fast to clean up
The development, on top of being scattered in direction, also moved very quickly in building features out. Combined with a lack of formal computer/software engineering education, a lot of things were written not just in suboptimal ways, but in ways that detracted from performance. There were plenty of interdependencies between different scripts and components that make the source code unweildy and hard to debug. There's a lot of focus on make it exist first, make it good later, but that only works when you give yourself the time to make it good later.

---
# What I took away

I feel like what my perception of the difficulties of development caused me to prioritize improvement in the areas I knew I could most directly affect them. I started only as QA and testing, focusing on bug testing, level routing, and where I felt the friction in the experience. My analysis and suggestions at the time didn't lead to much aside from some exploit patching, so I focused on finding bugs and explicitly stating how I think they should be fixed, the relevant engine docs, and what engineering a solution would look like. To my future self, **your successes are found by focusing on the things that you actually have a non-zero influence on.**

When I ended up on code, I did address my concerns more directly save and prototype my solutions before presenting them. The reception to most of it is pretty reserved since most changes aren't flashy, alert-the-press kind of updates, but more systemic. I know they're important changes, and all of the mechanical changes I've made give the game its sauce. To my future self, **your concerns are valid and your solutions are grounded, so fix it, prove it, and it'll usually be for the better.**

In the months since release, optimization, bug fixing, and QoL has largely been a solo affair. I take a lot of personal responsibility for the first commercial project with my name on it, so I just keep picking away at thing I can fix and improve. To say it has worn me down would be an understatement, but the game does end up better for it. To my future self (knowing that you will not listen), **it's okay to stop. No one will blame you for stopping and no one will praise you for continuing.**

I see the value in creative flexibility and being able to wear many hats and jump from one thing to another, but if I were to do it all again, I would appreciate more planning, some more guidance in vision. Maybe that's achieved by delegating more; allowing someone to be the lead gameplay director, art director, etc. Of course, they all still answer to and are ultimately guided by the producer/director/lead, but this allowing someone to focus in on one aspect and be a guiding force for everyone else under their umbrella I think would lead to a better end result.